[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The study of cymatics
has fascinated researchers
for years.
Now one scientist has
found a practical way
to use the phenomenon to enhance
targeted cancer treatments.
This is Gaia News.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The study of cymatics, or the
spontaneous geometric patterns
produced by sound when it
encounters water or particulate
matter on a surface, was coined
by Swiss researcher Hans Jenny
in 1967.
Jenny documented
the patterns that
appeared when putting sand or
fluid on a metal plate that
was connected to a sonic
frequency oscillator.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Today, acoustic-physics
scientist John Stuart Reid
has partnered with
Doctor Sungchul
Ji at Rutgers University
to apply cymatic imaging
to identify cancer cells
compared to healthy cells.
The two hope to
develop this technology
to allow surgeons the ability
to more precisely target
cancerous cells when
removing tumors.
>> So what we do with the
CymaScope instrument is
to literally imprint sound
onto the surface and, indeed,
the subsurface of pure
medical grade water,
and thereby make it visible with
specific lighting techniques.
It's actually quite
difficult for a surgeon
to remove a tumor
in its entirety.
>> While this type of technology
would aid any procedure
requiring a surgical
removal of a tumor,
it would be particularly
groundbreaking for brain
surgery and other highly
sensitive areas in which
healthy cells must be
carefully navigated.
So what do cancer cells look
like compared to healthy cells?
>> What we found was that the
sounds of cancer cells are
generally fairly
skewed and, well,
I would call them
subjectively ugly.
Whereas, the sounds
from healthy cells,
generally, the
sounds are harmonic.
And therefore, the
patterns that are created,
these cymatic patterns, are
very symmetrical by comparison.
And as the cell
has a respiration,
it's literally making
sound all of the time.
So all of our cells are
singing all of the time.
And actually, it's
really interesting
to know that they're singing
in the audible spectrum.
So in other words, if we
could hear those sounds,
well, it would actually
drive us nuts, wouldn't it?
So it's probably just as
well that we can't hear them.
However, they are literally
in the audible spectrum.
And it's just a question of
having specific tools that
allow us to listen
in to those sounds
and then amplify those sounds
so that we can then hear them.
>> As Reid and his colleagues
continue to develop
the CymaScope for
targeted cancer surgery,
they are also looking into a
number of other applications
for the technology across
multiple scientific
disciplines.
>> We are at the very
beginning, you could say,
of this new revolution in
science in terms of making
sound visible.
And it's extremely important
because sound actually
underpins virtually
every science.
Even if you think
of biology even, all
of the biochemical
reactions that
are occurring in our
body all of the time,
they're all based on
sound if you think of it
from the atomic viewpoint.
So being able to
make sound visible
is a really wonderful way
of gaining new insights
into almost every science.
>> For new perspective,
this is Gaia News.
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.
[MUSIC PLAYING]